GENERAL RULES
 
    1. Be respectful to all players out-of-character.
    2. Any threats or intent to harm other players in the community or the server will result in a permanent ban.
    3. Do not complain about staffing decisions in game or in global chat. Appeals or reports can be made on the forums.
    4. In game currency and items (Cash, Printers, C4, Shipments, etc.) may not be sold or traded for real life items, currency or               
       credits.    
    6. The sale of dupes are excluded.
    7. Do not spam anything of any kind.
    8. Avoiding punishments by any means is forbidden.
    9. A staff member has final say on all rule interpretations including those not explicitly stated in the rules.
   10. Anyone caught baiting or encouraging others to violate rules will have an equal or greater punishment to the rule violation.
   11. GOLDEN RULE: USE COMMON SENSE!
 
 
RP RULES
 
    1. Random Death Match (RDM)
 
        1. Players directly harming your life, property and/or freedom may be killed without warning.
        2. Raids and hits can be completed by killing without warning.
        3. All other cases require a 10s+ second warning including a clear set of instructions delivered through typed chat and the                                  
           10s+                  
        4. time for validity.
        5. It is the full responsibility of the warning originator to ensure all intended targets are aware of the warning outside the           
           vicinity of their base (designated by the raidzone) should they ask
        6. You can grant custom "everyone" warnings on your own leisure, bypassing the public duality to the rule above, but with an    
           obvious risk
        7. As for the base vicinity, if you choose to specify targets in your raid zone before warning, others not specified cannot
           kill you. If you choose not to specify your targets, everyone receiving the warning in your raid zone can kill you.
        8. If the target has completed the instructions in full, you may not kill them.
        9. The consequence does not have to be detailed, all valid warnings are automatically a threat excluding 10 second demote    
           warnings.
           Ex: Leave or die you have 10 seconds!
        11. If the receiving target of a warning and/or inducing action shows hostile intent OR ignorance of the instruction (2 second
            leisure), such as but not limited to specifically un-holstering a weapon/red baton, escaping, un-safetying a weapon, etc.
            then action can be made instant.
            Examples of Inducing Actions: Stunsticking, Raping, Mugging, Pimp Slapping, Kidnapping, Tazing, Wanting, Damaging and so on
 
      2. Metagaming
 
          1.Your character may not use information beyond its knowledge and beyond its current life. This includes but is not limited
            to any form of revenge killing, warrant, wanting, or demoting
      3. Props and Entities
 
          1. Prop/Entity/Door spamming, blocking, climbing, surfing, and minging altogether is not allowed.
          2. Do not spawn props/move props inside of/on top of other players’ property, do not do it during raids, and do not do it
             during an event
 
    2. Basing and Building
 
        1.You may have a textscreen building sign to isolate and protect yourself from the RP world provided you do not have any    
          raidables, and you are not engaging in role-play. It must be removed when you are finished. Call staff if you are being
          tampered with to the point where you cannot physically build.
        2. The maximum amount of fading doors per base is 3.
        3. Bases cannot force players to crouch, jump, crouch jump or precision walk at any point.
        4. Fading bridges and sky-bases are not allowed.
        5. Base entrances as well as the overall inner layout must be absolutely clear and concise. (I.E Mazes, Traps [if non-hostage
           taker], Puzzles, Hidden Keypads, etc.)
        6. You may not build anywhere in the vicinity of the main intersection point in front of spawn or the immediate sidewalks
           directly adjacent the spawn entrances/exits for Danktown / C18
        7. Building pointless large bases or other RP-restricting structures (i.e pointless things blocking more than 50% of the
           road/sidewalk) will result in them being removed. Pointless is described as something that adds nothing to the RP value or
           gameplay ~ some examples being Art, Houses with no purpose, Buildings with no purpose, Minge Builds, etc.
        8. You cannot trap people or force anyone to pay a toll to exit an obstruction if you are not a hostage taking class.
 
    3. RP Relation
 
        1. You are free to protect players, along with their property, that you have an RP relationship with
        2. You cannot RP Relate yourself to someone after a hostile action has been initiated in order to defend against said action.
        3. RP Relation via job name must be completed both ways to be valid.
            Ways to be RP related:
                Job/Class – This takes precedence over all other RP relation. You must also follow all class rules before considering
                            RP relation.
                Owning the same base – You may only protect those within the vicinity of your base. This also applies to the Hotel and
                                       all tenants within, every tenant shares ownership of the Hotel along with the Manager.
                Company– A company can be made for $4,000 .
                Hired/Working Together – You must be either hired through F4, or have your job name set as: /job "with person/org name
                                         here*"
                Customer Relationship – Whilst performing your transaction you have RP relation with your customer
 
    4. Raiding and Mugging
 
        You and those RP related with you must wait 10 minutes before performing these actions on the same person and/or base. This          
        does not apply to Police Officers re-raiding bases for illegal infractions or players raiding out of jail by means of escaping.
            1. Mugging
                Maximum: $5,000
                Must grant victims 10 seconds to oblige unless they are actively escaping, in which you can KOS them.
                Any signs of hostile intent from the victim (including taking out/switching to weaponry) is KOS
                You may not mug groups.
                Ex: Drop 1k or die you have 10 seconds.
            2. Raiding
                You may only occupy a raid for 10 minutes. Once you’ve completed your raid, you must leave immediately.
                Dying during a raid, coming back, and re-entering absolutely any part of the raid zone is disallowed as well as      
                attempting to contribute to the success or failure of said raid from outside it. Defenders neglect this ruling.
                You must be a raiding class to assist in any form of raid period
                Destroying entities is not considered raiding
                Absolutely anyone is KOS in the raid zone (defined as a 5 shoulder-to-shoulder length from any entrance/exit/wall ~          
                props included). Government jobs have different raid zone guidelines below.
                Leaving the raid zone at any point during the raid ends your raid participation with the exception of leaving to deal
                with someone directly related to the base
                If it is 100% obvious that there are no raidables in a base, you may not raid.
                You may raid checkpoints.
    5. Kidnapping
 
            1. Ransom cannot exceed 50,000
            2. Zip-tying or purchasing a hostage classifies it as your own property and they are raidables when left in your base
            3. Only kidnapping classes may advertise (PM, Voice, Ad, Yell, and Chat) the sale of hostages a.k.a ransom
            4. Only kidnapping classes may trap players in their base and/or constructions
            5. If your hostage struggles out and attempts to clearly escape, you may KOS them. If you witness someone attempt to free    
               your hostage they are KOS.
            6. Zip-tying upon hearing the sound is assault relative to the target it's being aimed towards
            7. As a hostage, you may KOS the kidnapper, the person owning the props holding you, and anyone related until you
               successfully escape the facility/building/prop construction
 
    6. Police Specific Rules:
 
        1. Police must arrest instead of kill after giving a valid 10 second warning
        2. Police may be asked to leave the inside of a base and/or stop impeding a door/exit legally with a customized demotion
           warning.
        3. Police must only want/warrant an individual off of definite and visible infractions. There are two exceptions: One includes       
           advertisements/textscreens displaying explicit hit, illegal items (C4, Printers, etc.), and/or ransoms. The other is search  
           warranting the bases of wanted players who are explicitly listed on a door or revealed via /go in the same vicinity.
        4. Police must grant individuals clear warnings in chat during lockdowns
        5. Police may arrest people (and any part of their body) past the PD lobby, blocking the second lobby/back of PD door, and/or
           KOS them if they are armed with hostile intent
        6. Police may KOS/AOS absolutely anyone holding weaponry in the raid zone. They may also AOS those bodyblocking entrances/exits
           in the raidzone.
        7. Police may KOS if they are assaulted by all means except Bugbait and an Arrest Baton (they do nothing), in which they must
           arrest.
        8. Police may AOS anyone carrying a hostage
        9. Police may only build checkpoints if authorized by the Mayor command, not law. The checkpoint must include at lease one free
           pathway through.
        10. Police may not plant evidence or ask others to do so to incriminate
        11. Police cannot raid (attacking) with criminals
        12. If a player is wanted, the Police must make every attempt to arrest FIRST, unless/until they are armed with hostile intent.
        13. Police may do warrant-able "base checks" of wanted individuals whose explicit name appears on the door, via /warrant
            [Name], or that run behind prop barricades in bases
        14. Police may fully sweep bases they find themselves needing to warrant
        15. Do not grief players props (destroying of props you know will bring you 0 value)
 
Vendors / Scamming
 
        1. Do not scam regardless of whether or not you are a designated Vendor class. "Vendoring" encompasses all trade and
           transactions even while not being a vendor job, done via the non-global (PM), (YELL), and (CHAT).
        2. Instances where staff will NOT convene given the consistent lack of proof and unlikelihood (scamming still not allowed):
        3. If you are scammed after free hand gambling with other players on the server without utilizing the gambling machines
        4. If you are scammed via transactions not found in non-global chats like (ADVERT)
        5. If you are scammed via transactions done in (VOICE)
        6. Staff are also obligated to convene if they can find the proof to convict, like a confession or video proof for all that has
           been listed except advert.
